# Obstacle-Avoiding-Robot-

Obstacle Avoiding Robot A simple project on the robot avoiding the obstacle is designed here. Robotics is an interesting and fast-growing field. Robotics applications, which is an engineering branch, increase with the advancement of technology. The concept of Mobile Robot is developing rapidly and the number and complexity of mobile robots increase with different applications. There are many mobile robot navigation techniques such as road planning, self-localization and map interpretation. An obstacle avoiding the robot is a kind of autonomous mobile robot that prevents collision with unexpected obstacles. In this project, an obstacle avoiding the robot was designed. It is an arduino based robot that uses ultrasonic range finder sensors to prevent collisions. Hardware Required: Arduino Uno [Buy Here] Ultrasonic Range Finder Sensor-HC-SR04 Motor driver IC-L293D [buy here] Servo Motor (tower Pro SG90) DC motors x 2 Robot Sh Chassisasi Power Supply Battery Connector Battery Holder Component Description: Arduino Uno Arduino Uno is an ATmega 328p Microcontroller based prototyping board. It is an open source electronic prototyping platform that can be used with various sensors and actuators. Arduino Uno has 14 digital I / O pins that use 6 pins in this project. HC - SR04 (ultrasonic sensor) How to use the ultrasonic sensor to prevent obstacles Before building the robot, it is important to understand how the ultrasonic sensor works because this sensor will play an important role in detecting the obstacle. The basic principle behind the operation of the ultrasonic sensor is to note the time taken by the sensor to transmit the ultrasonic beams and pick up the ultrasonic beams after hitting the surface. The distance is then calculated using the formula. The HC-SR04 Ultrasonic sensor commonly used in this project is used. A similar approach will be followed to use this sensor as described above. L293D is a motor driver that can provide two-way drive current for two motors. Servo Motor Tower Pro SG90 is a simple Servo Motor that can rotate 90 degrees in all directions (about 180 degrees in total). Arduino avoiding obstacle design using Arduino: Arduino is the robot's main processing unit. 7 pins out of 14 digital I / O pins available are used in this project design. The ultrasonic sensor has 4 pins: Vcc, Trig, Echo and Gnd. Vcc and Gnd are connected to the + 5v and GND pins of the arduino. Trig (trigger) A0 pin is connected and Echo arduino UNO A1 pin is connected respectively. A Servo Motor is used to rotate the ultrasonic Sensor to scan obstacles. It has three pins, the control, VCC and GND. The servo control pin connects to Vcc and GND + 5V and GND, while the pin of L293D connects to 10. L293D is a 16 pin IC. Pins 1 and 9 are enable pins. Similarly, pins 10 and 15 are control inputs for two DC motors. They are connected to the 5th and 4th pins of Arduino. L293d pins are 4, 5, 12 and 13 ground pins and are connected to Gnd. The first motor (think of it as the motor for the left wheel), L293D pins M1 are connected. The second engine, which functions as the right wheel motor, is connected to the L293D M2. The L293d of 16th pin is Vcc1. It connects + 5V. 8 pins is Vcc2. This is the motor supply voltage. It can be connected anywhere between 4.7 V and 36V. In this project, if the l293d + 5V is connected to the supply pin 8. Note: A separate power supply must be given to the motor driver, namely pin 1 (enable 1), 8 (VCC2), 9 (enable 2) and 16 (VCC1) power supply. Motor driver panels are available with on-board 5 V voltage regulator. A similar one is used in the project. If the circuit diagram above the obstacle avoiding the robot is uncertain, the image below can help. Work: Before going to the project run, it is important to understand how the ultrasonic sensor works. The basic principle behind the operation of the ultrasonic sensor is as follows: Using an external trigger signal, the Trig pin on the ultrasonic sensor is made logic high for at least 10µs. A sonic burst is sent from the transmitter module. It consists of 8 pulses of 40KHz. The signals return after hitting a surface and the receiver detects this signal. The reverb pin is higher than the time to send and receive the signal. This time can be converted to distance using appropriate calculations. The aim of this project is to apply an obstacle by avoiding the robot using the Ultrasonic sensor and Arduino. All connections are made according to the circuit diagram. The work of the project is described below. When the robot is turned on, the motors of the robot run normally and the robot moves forward. During this time, the Ultrasonic sensor continuously calculates the distance between the robot and the reflective surface. This Information is processed by Arduino. If the distance between the robot and the obstacle is less than 15 cm, the robot stops and scans in the left and right directions for the new distance using the servo motor and ultrasonic sensor. If the distance to the left is greater than that of the right, the robot will be prepared for a left turn. But first, spare some and then move the left wheel motor in the opposite direction.
